python a highlevel interpreted
programming language famous for its
zen-like code it's arguably the most
popular language in the world because
it's easy to learn yet practical for
serious projects in fact you're watching
this YouTube video in a python web
application right now it was created by
Guido van rossom and released in 1991
who named it after Monty Python's Flying
Circus which is why you'll sometimes
find spaming eggs instead of Foo and bar
and code samples it's commonly used to
build serers side applications like web
apps with the framework and is the
language of choice for Big Data analysis
and machine learning many students
choose python to start learning decode
because of its emphasis on readability
as outlined by the Zen of python
beautiful is better than ugly while
explicit is better than implicit python
is very simple but avoids the temptation
to sprinkle in Magic that causes
ambiguity its code is often organized
into notebooks where individual cells
can be executed then documented in the
same place we're currently at version
three of the language and you can get
started by creating a file that ends in
py or iynb to create an interactive
notebook create a variable by setting a
name equal to a value it's strongly
typed which means values won't change in
unexpected ways but Dynamic so type
annotations are not required the syntax
is highly efficient allowing you to
declare multiple variables on a single
line and Define tupal lists and
dictionaries with a literal syntax
semicolons are not required and if you
use them and experience pythonista will
say that your code is not pythonic
instead of semicolons python uses
indentation to terminate or determine
the scope of a line of code Define a
function with the def keyword then
indent the next line usually by four
spaces to define the function body we
might then add a for Loop to it and
indent that by another four spaces this
eliminates the need for curly braces and
semicolons found in many other languages
python is a multiparadigm language we
can apply functional programming
patterns with things like Anonymous
functions using Lambda it also uses
objects as an abstraction for data
allowing you to implement objectoriented
patterns with things like classes and
inheritance it also has a huge ecosystem
of thirdparty libraries such as deep
learning Frameworks like tensorflow and
rappers for many high performance
low-level packages like open computer
vision which are most often installed
with the PIP package manager this has
been the Python programming language in
100 seconds hit the like button if you
want to see more short videos like this
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next one